                # Crude Prices Fall Sharply as Global Oil Supply Concerns Ease
                **Date:** 2025-08-26T14:25:00+00:00
                **Source:** barchart
                **Body:** October WTI crude oil (CLV25) on Tuesday closed down -1.55 (-2.39%), and October RBOB gasoline (RBV25) closed down -0.0370 (-1.86%).Crude oil and gasoline prices retreated on Tuesday as global crude supply concerns eased after Russia said one of its largest refineries will soon restart after repairs were made following a Ukrainian drone attack.  Gasoline prices were also under pressure as supply concerns eased with the restart of the BP refinery in Whiting, Indiana, the largest inland refinery in the US.  The 115,000 bpd Pipestill unit, which had been shuttered since August 19 due to storms and flooding, has now resumed operations.Tuesday's weaker dollar and better-than-expected US economic news were supportive for crude prices.  July US capital goods new orders nondefense ex-aircraft and parts, a proxy for capital spending, rose +1.1% m/m, stronger than expectations of +0.2% m/m.  Also, the Conference Board US Aug consumer confidence index fell -1.3 to 97.4, stronger than expectations of 96.5.  In addition, the Aug Richmond Fed manufacturing survey rose +13 to a 5-month high of -7, stronger than expectations of -11.Global crude supply concerns eased after Russia announced that its Volgograd refinery, which can process 300,000 bpd of crude oil, will resume operations a week earlier than planned, as repairs to the refinery were made following drone attacks by Ukraine.Weakness in the crude crack spread is bearish for oil prices as the crack spread fell to a 2.25-month low on Tuesday.  The weaker spread discourages refiners from purchasing crude oil and refining it into gasoline and distillates.An increase in crude oil held worldwide on tankers is bearish for oil prices.  Vortexa reported Monday that crude oil stored on tankers that have been stationary for at least seven days rose by +11% w/w to 96.77 million bbl in the week ended August 22.Crude prices also have support on concern that the Russian-Ukrainian war will continue, which could keep restrictions on Russian crude exports in place, and even secondary restrictions could be added.  Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov said Sunday that there was no meeting planned between the leaders of Russia and Ukraine and that there "needs to be an agenda first" for a meeting to take place.  "This agenda is not ready at all."  Concerns about higher OPEC production are negative for crude prices after OPEC+ on August 2 endorsed an additional 547,000 bpd increase in its crude production for September 1.  OPEC+ is boosting output to reverse the 2-year-long production cut, gradually restoring a total of 2.2 million bpd of production by September 2026.  OPEC+ has 1.66 million bpd of supplies that are currently due to remain offline until late 2026.  OPEC July crude production fell by -20,000 bpd to 28.31 million bpd.The consensus is that Wednesday's weekly EIA crude inventories fell by -2.0 million barrels, and gasoline supplies declined by -1.6 million barrels.Last Wednesday's weekly EIA report showed that (1) US crude oil inventories as of August 15 were -5.6% below the seasonal 5-year average, (2) gasoline inventories were -0.7% below the seasonal 5-year average, and (3) distillate inventories were -13.0% below the 5-year seasonal average.  US crude oil production in the week ending August 15 rose by +0.4% w/w to 13.382 million bpd, modestly below the record high of 13.631 million bpd posted in the week of 12/6/2024.Baker Hughes reported last Friday that the number of active US oil rigs in the week ending August 22 fell by -1 to 411 rigs, just above the 3.75-year low of 410 rigs from August 1.  Over the past 2.5 years, the number of US oil rigs has fallen sharply from the 5.25-year high of 627 rigs reported in December 2022. 
                ---
                # Crude Prices Retreat as Global Oil Supply Concerns Ease
                **Date:** 2025-08-26T10:40:00+00:00
                **Source:** barchart
                **Body:** October WTI crude oil (CLV25) today is down -1.20 (-1.85%), and October RBOB gasoline (RBV25) is down -0.0330 (-1.65%).Crude oil and gasoline prices today are moving lower as global crude supply concerns eased after Russia said one of its largest refineries will soon restart after repairs were made following a Ukrainian drone attack.   Gasoline prices are also under pressure as supply concerns eased when the BP refinery in Whiting, Indiana, the largest inland refinery in the US, restarted its 115,000 bpd Pipestill unit that had been shuttered since August 19 due to storms and flooding.  Today's weaker dollar and better-than-expected US economic news are supportive for crude prices.Global crude supply concerns eased after Russia said its Volgograd refinery, which can process 300,000 bpd of crude oil, will resume operations a week earlier than planned, as repairs to the refinery were made following drone attacks by Ukraine.Weakness in the crude crack spread is bearish for oil prices as the crack spread fell to a 2-month low today.  The weaker spread discourages refiners from purchasing crude oil and refining it into gasoline and distillates.An increase in crude oil held worldwide on tankers is bearish for oil prices.  Vortexa reported Monday that crude oil stored on tankers that have been stationary for at least seven days rose by +11% w/w to 96.77 million bbl in the week ended August 22.Strength in today's US economic reports is positive for energy demand and crude prices.  July capital goods new orders nondefense ex-aircraft and parts, a proxy for capital spending, rose +1.1% m/m, stronger than expectations of +0.2% m/m.  Also, the Conference Board US Aug consumer confidence index fell -1.3 to 97.4, stronger than expectations of 96.5.  In addition, the Aug Richmond Fed manufacturing survey rose +13 to a 5-month high of -7, stronger than expectations of -11.Crude prices also have support on concern that the Russian-Ukrainian war will continue, which could keep restrictions on Russian crude exports in place, and even secondary restrictions could be added.  Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov said Sunday that there was no meeting planned between the leaders of Russia and Ukraine and that there "needs to be an agenda first" for a meeting to take place.  "This agenda is not ready at all."  Concerns about higher OPEC production are negative for crude prices after OPEC+ on August 2 endorsed an additional 547,000 bpd increase in its crude production for September 1.  OPEC+ is boosting output to reverse the 2-year-long production cut, gradually restoring a total of 2.2 million bpd of production by September 2026.  OPEC+ has 1.66 million bpd of supplies that are currently due to remain offline until late 2026.  OPEC July crude production fell by -20,000 bpd to 28.31 million bpd.Last Wednesday's weekly EIA report showed that (1) US crude oil inventories as of August 15 were -5.6% below the seasonal 5-year average, (2) gasoline inventories were -0.7% below the seasonal 5-year average, and (3) distillate inventories were -13.0% below the 5-year seasonal average.  US crude oil production in the week ending August 15 rose by +0.4% w/w to 13.382 million bpd, modestly below the record high of 13.631 million bpd posted in the week of 12/6/2024.Baker Hughes reported last Friday that the number of active US oil rigs in the week ending August 22 fell by -1 to 411 rigs, just above the 3.75-year low of 410 rigs from August 1.  Over the past 2.5 years, the number of US oil rigs has fallen sharply from the 5.25-year high of 627 rigs reported in December 2022. 
                ---
                # Energy Futures Hold Above Key Resistance After Surprise Upside
                **Date:** 2025-08-26T09:41:00+00:00
                **Source:** barchart
                **Body:** WTI Crude Oil futures surprised with upside strength yesterday. Driven by strong technical momentum and a large speculator short position reported on Friday, the limited news flow for the day provided a clean runway for a rally.There were reports that Ukraine had damaged Russian export facilities in the Baltic region, which also contributed to the rally.Overnight, Trump fired the Fed’s Cook. The firing was largely expected to come from Powell, and the fact that Trump broke the news is eroding some US dollar credibility. This type of “sell America” trade, which we saw in April, is something to keep an eye on. Crude Oil is lower this morning on a risk-off move tied to this firing.Technical Analysis:Futures punched above the 64.20*** key resistance level with ease yesterday and have reestablished themselves within the trading range seen throughout July between 64.30*** and 66.33***. The next resistance point within reach lies between 65.15-65.30***, which marks a key settlement on the move downward spurred by Russian talks as well as multiple settlements throughout July. Subscribe to our daily Energy Update for essential insights into Crude Oil and more. Get expert technical analysis, proprietary trading levels, and actionable market biases delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up now for free futures market research from Blue Line Futures!SIGN UP FOR 2-WEEKS OF FREE RESEARCH Futures trading involves substantial risk of loss and may not be suitable for all investors. Therefore, carefully consider whether such trading is suitable for you in light of your financial condition. Trading advice is based on information taken from trade and statistical services and other sources Blue Line Futures, LLC believes are reliable. We do not guarantee that such information is accurate or complete and it should not be relied upon as such. Trading advice reflects our good faith judgment at a specific time and is subject to change without notice. There is no guarantee that the advice we give will result in profitable trades. All trading decisions will be made by the account holder. Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results.Blue Line Futures is a member of NFA and is subject to NFA’s regulatory oversight and examinations. However, you should be aware that the NFA does not have regulatory oversight authority over underlying or spot virtual currency products or transactions or virtual currency exchanges, custodians or markets. Therefore, carefully consider whether such trading is suitable for you considering your financial condition.With Cyber-attacks on the rise, attacking firms in the healthcare, financial, energy and other state and global sectors, Blue Line Futures wants you to be safe! Blue Line Futures will never contact you via a third party application. Blue Line Futures employees use only firm authorized email addresses and phone numbers. If you are contacted by any person and want to confirm identity please reach out to us at info@bluelinefutures.com or call us at 312- 278-0500Performance DisclaimerHypothetical performance results have many inherent limitations, some of which are described below. No representation is being made that any account will or is likely to achieve profits or losses similar to those shown. In fact, there are frequently sharp differences between hypothetical performance results and the actual results subsequently achieved by any particular trading program.One of the limitations of hypothetical performance results is that they are generally prepared with the benefit of hindsight. In addition, hypothetical trading does not involve financial risk, and no hypothetical trading record can completely account for the impact of financial risk in actual trading. For example, the ability to withstand losses or to adhere to a particular trading program in spite of trading losses are material points which can also adversely affect actual trading results. There are numerous other factors related to the markets in general or to the implementation of any specific trading program which cannot be fully accounted for in the preparation of hypothetical performance results and all of which can adversely affect actual trading results. 
                ---
